=encoding utf8

=pod

=head1 NAME

README for ddc-dstar/corpus/web

=head1 SYNOPSIS

 ##-- ... display summary of known targets
 $ make help

 ##-- .... (re-) initialize local configuration files(s)
 $ make init

 ##-- ... install generated apache site configuration to /etc/apache2 (WEB_SITE_INSTALL_DIR)
 $ sudo make install

 ##-- ... install if required, and register with apache
 $ make register

 ##-- ... remove most generated files (including indices)
 $ make clean

=cut

##======================================================================
=pod

=head1 DESCRIPTION

This directory provides a generic web-based interface for use with D* corpora.
The D* corpus management tools are maintained in SVN under C<svn+ssh://svn.dwds.de/home/svn/dev/ddc-dstar/trunk/>,
and are mirrored daily to the B<READ-ONLY> ZDL gitea repository L<$gitsrc/>.

=cut

##======================================================================
=pod

=head2 Requirements

See L<C<README_deps>|$doc/README_deps.html>
rsp. the SVN sub-project
C<svn+ssh://svn.dwds.de/home/svn/dev/ddc-dstar/deps>
rsp. its read-only gitea mirror L<$svnmirror/dstar-deps/>.

=cut


##======================================================================
=pod

=head2 Web Directory Structure

=head3 Subdirectories

The L<C<corpus/web/>|$gitsrc/corpus/web/> directory contains the following subdirectories:

=over 4

=item config/

(B<OBSOLETE>) Corpus-dependent configuration directory - now in C<$(L<WEB_RCDIR|$doc/README_config.html#WEB_RCDIR>)>, usually C<$(L<DSTAR_ROOT|$doc/README_config.html#DSTAR_ROOT>)/config/web>.

You can store corpus-dependent web overrides in the Template Toolkit file C<config/$(L<CORPUS|$doc/README_config.html#CORPUS>).ttk>, which will be
read by all local templates.  Such corpus-dependent templates can and should be checked into the dstar
version control system, assuming they are valid for all instances of a given corpus.  Perl-level overrides can be
stored in C<config/$(L<CORPUS|$doc/README_config.html#CORPUS>).rc> and will be included in the local C<dstar.rc> file by the C<init-rc> target.

In earlier versions of the dstar system, the C<corpus/web/config> directory was situated directly under
C<$(L<CORPUS|$doc/README_config.html#CORPUS>)/web/>.  As of SVN revision 13975 (2015-03-02), C<corpus/web/config/> is just a symbolic link
to C<$(L<WEB_RCDIR|$doc/README_config.html#WEB_RCDIR>)>, by default C<$(L<DSTAR_ROOT|$doc/README_config.html#DSTAR_ROOT>)/config/web/>.

=item L<C<diacollo/>|$gitsrc/corpus/web/diacollo/>

(Optional) generic L<web-interface|https://metacpan.org/release/DiaColloDB-WWW>
to the L<DiaColloDB|https://metacpan.org/release/DiaColloDB> diachronic collocation database for the current corpus.
Only used if an index is available and the value of the make variable C<$(L<WEB_DIACOLLO_ENABLED|$doc/README_config.html#WEB_DIACOLLO_ENABLED>)> is neither empty nor "C<no>".

=item L<C<highslide/>|$gitsrc/corpus/web/highslide/>

Static C<highslide.js> snapshot used for transitory popups.

=item L<C<images/>|$gitsrc/corpus/web/images/>

Logos and icons for dstar corpora.
You can check small corpus-local logos and icons into this directory if you wish.

=item L<lexdbE<sol>|$gitsrc/corpus/web/lexdb/>

(Optional) generic web-interface to the simple sqlite corpus lexical database for the current corpus.
Only used if a lexdb database is available and the value of the make variable C<$(L<WEB_LEXDB_ENABLED|$doc/README_config.html#WEB_LEXDB_ENABLED>)> is neither empty nor "C<no>".

=item L<C<semcloud/>|$gitsrc/corpus/web/semcloud/>

Distributional semantic index and web-service wrappers for the current corpus.
Only used if such an index was built and installed at corpus compilation time and the
value of the make variable C<$(L<WEB_SEMCLOUD_ENABLED|$doc/README_config.html#WEB_SEMCLOUD_ENABLED>)> is neither empty nor "C<no>".

=item L<C<stats/>|$gitsrc/corpus/web/stats/>

(Optional) directory containing various assorted pre-compiled corpus statistics.
Only populated if the corresponding statistics were built at corpus compilation time.
Prior to 2020-03, such statistics were regularly updated by a cron-job running
C<$(L<DSTAR_ROOT|$doc/README_config.html#DSTAR_ROOT>)/webroot/www-stats/dstar-stats-update.perl>.
See L</Corpus Statistics> for a list of the compiled statistics.

=back

=cut


##======================================================================
=pod

=head3 Configuration Files

The following configuration files are either generated by
C<make init> or optional manual overrides.
Please B<do not> check any of these configuration files into version control.

=over 4

=item dstar.rc

Low-level perl file generated by C<make init>
and sourced by all CGI scripts to
set default values for DDC server, corpus name, and base URL.
Also includes any local code from C<config/$(L<CORPUS|$doc/README_config.html#CORPUS>).rc> if present.

=item local.rc

B<OPTIONAL> low-level perl file which can be used to set
local overrides of the variables in L<C<dstar.rc>|/dstar.rc>

=item siterc.vars

Simple C<make> variable assignments used for generating L<C<site.rc>|/site.rc>,
1 variable per line, lines of the form C<I<VAR>=I<VALUE>>.  Also used by
L<C<config.perl>|/config.perl>.

=item site.rc

Apache configuration file generated by C<make init> via
L<C<siterc.ttk>|$gitsrc/corpus/web/siterc.ttk>, and installed
into C</etc/apache2/sites-(available|enabled)> by C<make install>
(implied by C<make register>).
Changes to corpus configuration variables which affect the apache site configuration
(in particular those involving access restrictions such as
L<C<WEB_DIACOLLO_ENABLE>|$doc/README_config.html#WEB_DIACOLLO_ENABLE>,
L<C<WEB_DIACOLLO_PUBLIC>|$doc/README_config.html#WEB_DIACOLLO_PUBLIC>,
L<C<WEB_SITE_ALLOW>|$doc/README_config.html#WEB_SITE_ALLOW>,
L<C<WEB_SITE_PUBLIC>|$doc/README_config.html#WEB_SITE_PUBLIC>,
L<C<WEB_SITE_AUTH_FILE>|$doc/README_config.html#WEB_SITE_AUTH_FILE>,
L<C<WEB_SITE_AUTH_EXTERNAL>|$doc/README_config.html#WEB_SITE_AUTH_EXTERNAL>,
etc.) require re-initialization (C<make init>)
and re-registration (C<dstar-register-web.sh>) of the working copy on C<WEBHOST>,
in order to ensure that the apache configuration updated and reloaded.

=item corpus.ttk

As mentioned above, corpus-local configuration can be tuned by creating and/or
editing the file C<config/$(L<CORPUS|$doc/README_config.html#CORPUS>).ttk> to override or set default values for
Template Toolkit variables used by the web templates.  If C<config/$(L<CORPUS|$doc/README_config.html#CORPUS>).ttk> is
present, then the directory initialization rules invoked by C<make init>
will create the file C<corpus.ttk> as a symlink pointing to C<config/$(L<CORPUS|$doc/README_config.html#CORPUS>).ttk>.
Otherwise, C<corpus.ttk> will be auto-generated as an empty file.

See C<common.ttk> for a list of common variables which can be set here.

=item custom.ttk

B<OPTIONAL> Template Toolkit customization file loaded AFTER
L<C<corpus.ttk>|/corpus.ttk> and the main content of C<common.ttk> which can be used to
set instance-specific overrides.

=item L<osd.xml|$gitsrc/corpus/web/osd.xml>

OpenSearch description document for the web wrapper instance generated
by C<make init>.

=back

=cut


##======================================================================
=pod

=head3 CGI Scripts

The web wrapper directory contains the following CGI scripts:

=over 4

=item config.perl

Wrapper for L<C<dstar.perl>|/dstar.perl> which returns read-only configuration variable dumps in JSON format.
The configuration variables to be dumped can be selected by the C<fmt> parameter, which accepts
the following values:

 all    : full dump (default)
 auth   : authorization make variables
 env    : environment variables
 site   : WEB_* make variables (siterc.vars)
 stash  : Template::Toolkit stash

Note that in order to minimize the potential for abuse, HTTP access to C<config.perl> should typically
be B<much> more restrictive than general web-wrapper access, and are controlled by the D* configuration
variables of the form L<C<WEB_SITE_CONFIG_*>|$doc/README_config.html#WEB_SITE_CONFIG_ALLOW>.


=item ddc-cgi.perl

"Thin" ddc wrapper, adapted from C<svn+ssh://svn.code.sf.net/p/ddc-concordance/code/ddc-perl/trunk/ddc-cgi.perl>.
Automated clients should access this script rather than L<C<dstar.perl>|/dstar.perl> whenever possible, in order to minimize
computation overhead and maintain maximal compatibility with the ddc-internal json format.  Accepts
the following parameters:

 q      # user query or request [required]
 mode   # query mode (json,html,table,text,req); default=json
 start  # first hit-number to return, starting from 1; default=1
 limit  # maximal number of hits to return; default=10
 hint   # navigation hint for ddc >= v2.1.9
 server # (DEBUG) alternate ddc server as HOST:PORT

=item details.perl

Symlink to L<C<dstar.perl>|/dstar.perl> which displays human-readable server status and corpus information.

=item dhist-plot.perl

Low-level time-series histogram acquisition and plotting script,
really just an C<svn:externals> alias for C<svn+ssh://svn.dwds.de/home/svn/dev/ddc-dstar-timeseries/trunk/ts-plot.perl>
(mirrored daily to L<$svnmirror/ddc-dstar-timeseries>).
Accepts the following parameters:

 ##-- time-series histogram options
 query		# target query (aliases: query qu q lemma lem l) [required]
 unit           # date-slice unit (aliases: unit u); known values: y=years(default), m=months, d=days
 offset         # date-slice offset in selected UNITs (aliases: offset off)
 slice		# date-slice interval size (integer); aliases=qw(sliceby slice sl s); default=10
                # + notation {SIZE}("+"|"-"){OFFSET} also sets default "offset" value
                # + notation {SIZE}(("+"|"-"){OFFSET})?{UNIT} also sets default "unit" value
 norm		# normalization mode (abs date class date+class corpus); aliases=qw(normalize norm n); default=abs
 logproj	# do log-linear projection? (aliases: logproject logp lp); default=0
 logavg		# do log-linear smoothing? (aliases: logavg loga la lognorm logn log ln); default=0
 window		# moving-average smoothing window width (slices) (aliases: window win w); default=0
 wbase		# inverse-distance smoothing base (aliases: wbase wb W); default=0
 totals		# plot totals? (aliases: totals tot T); default=0
 single		# plot single-curve only (true) or each genre separatately (false)? (aliases: single sing sg); default=0
 grand		# include grand-average curve (implied by single=1)? (aliases: grand gr g); default=0
 gaps		# allow gaps for missing (zero) values? (aliases: gaps gap); default=0
 prune		# inverse confidence level for outlier detection (0: no pruning, .05: 95% confidence level; aliases: prune pr); default=0 (may change)
 pformat	# target plot format (aliases: pformat pfmt pf format fmt f); default=png
                # - known values: null json text gnuplot png svg eps ps pdf epsmono psmono pdfmono

 ##-- gnuplot-only options
 xlabel         # x-axis label (default="date"; set to "none" to supppress)
 ylabel         # y-axis label (default="": auto; set to "none" to suppress)
 xrange		# gnuplot x-range (aliases: xrange xr); default=*:*
 yrange		# gnuplot y-range (aliases: yrange yr); default=0:*
 logscale	# log-scale base for gnuplot axes (aliases: logscale lscale ls logy ly); default=0 (no log-scaling)
 title		# gnuplot title; default='' (auto-generated; 'none' to suppress title)
 size		# gnuplot size (w,h) (aliases: psize psiz psz size siz sz); default=640,480
 key		# gnuplot legend? (aliases: key legend leg); default='' (gnuplot default; "off" or "none" to suppress)
 smooth		# gnuplot smoothing (values: none bezier csplines); default=none
 style		# gnuplot style (values: lines points linespoints); default=l
 grid 		# gnuplot grid? default=0
 bare           # gnuplot condensed format (line width)? default=0 (large plot)

 ##-- json-only options
 pretty		# pretty-print json output?; default=0

=item dstar.perl

Top-level wrapper script for processing user queries.  Accepts (among others) the following parameters:

 q      # user-specified ddc query; required
 start  # first hit-number to return (starting from 1); default=1
 limit  # maximal number of hits to return; default=10
 hint   # navigation hint for ddc >= v2.1.9
 export # Boolean; sets http content-disposition=attachment if true
 fmt    # output format; default=kwic (but depends on how dstar.perl was called); known values:
        #   index        : top-level corpus landing page (HTML)
        #   osd          : OpenSearch description file for corpus (XML)
        #   details      : human-readable corpus details (HTML)
        #   ddc          : (raw) raw query response data from ddc_daemon (usually raw JSON)
        #   html         : (web) corpus query results (HTML, full hits)
        #   kwic         : corpus query results (HTML, Keyword-In-Context)
        #   text         : (txt) corpus query results (UTF-8 text, full hits)
        #   text-kwic    : corpus query results (UTF-8 text, KWIC)
        #   csv          : comma-separated table (for spreadsheet import, full hits)
        #   csv-kwic     : comma-separated table (for spreadsheet import, KWIC)
        #   tsv          : TAB-separated table (for spreadsheet import, full hits)
        #   tsv-kwic     : TAB-separated table (for spreadsheet import, KWIC)
        #   json         : corpus query results (verbose JSON)
        #   json1        : corpus query results (verbose JSON, pretty)
        #   json2        : corpus query results (verbose JSON, prettier)
        #   yaml         : (yml) corpus query results (YAML)
        #   rss          : corpus query results (rss+xml)
        #   atom         : corpus query results (atom+xml)
        #   tcf          : corpus query results (tcf+xml)
        #   hist-html    : (hist, ts, ts-html) time-series histogram query results (HTML)
        #   hist-plot    : (plot, ts-plot) time-series histogram plot data (from dhist-plot.perl)
        #   hist-help    : time-series histogram help (HTML)
        #   expand-html  : (expand) term expansion GUI (HTML)
        #   expand-json  : term expansion (JSON)
        #   expand-text  : term expansion (UTF-8 text)
 server # (DEBUG) alternate ddc server as HOST:PORT

=item help-hist.perl

Symlink to L<C<dstar.perl>|/dstar.perl> which displays a human-readable help page for the L<time-series histogram interface|/hist.perl>.

=item hist.perl

Symlink to L<C<dstar.perl>|/dstar.perl> providing a top-level time-series histogram interface by setting a default C<fmt=hist-html>.

=item lizard.perl

Symlink to L<C<dstar.perl>|/dstar.perl> providing a top-level term expansion interface by setting a default C<fmt=expand-html>.

=item diacollo/index.perl

Top-level L<DiaColloDB::WWW|https://metacpan.org/release/DiaColloDB-WWW> user interface for L<DiaColloDB|https://metacpan.org/release/DiaColloDB>.
Accepts the following parameters:

 query     # target LEMMA(s) or /REGEX/ or DDC query (aliases: query q lemmata lemmas lemma lem l; REQUIRED)
 date      # target DATE(s) or /REGEX/ or MIN:MAX (aliases: dates date d; default=all)
 slice     # target date-slice or 0 for global profile (aliases: dslice slice ds sl s; default=10)
 bquery    # diff target query (aliases: bquery bq blemmata blemmas blemma blem bl; default=$QUERY)
 bdate     # diff target date  (aliases: bdates bdate bd; default=$DATE)
 bslice    # diff target slice (aliases: bdslice bslice bds bsl bs; default=$SLICE)
 groupby   # aggregation attribute list with optional restrictions (aliases: groupby group gr gb g; default=l,p)
 score     # score function (aliases: score sc sf; default=ld); known values:
           #  f     : frequency
           #  fm    : frequency per million
           #  lf    : log frequency
           #  lfm   : log frequency per million
           #  mi1   : pointwise mutual information (raw)
           #  mi3   : cubic pointwise mutual information
           #  milf  : pointwise mutual information * log frequency product (alias: mi)
           #  ll    : 1-sided log likelihood a la Evert (2008)
           #  ld    : log Dice coefficient a la Rychly (2008)
 kbest     # number of items per date-slice (aliases: kbest kb k; default=10)
 cutoff    # score cutoff per date-slice (aliases: cutoff cut co; not for "diff" profiles)
 diff      # low-level diff operation (aliases: diffop diff D; default=adiff); known values:
           #  diff  : raw difference (pre-trimmed, asymmetric)
           #  adiff : selects by absolute difference, returns raw difference (pre-trimmed, symmetric)
           #  sum   : score sum (symmetric)
           #  min   : minimum score (pre-trimmed, symmetric)
           #  max   : maximum score (symmetric)
           #  avg   : average score (symmetric)
           #  havg  : adjusted harmonic average (symmetric)
           #  gavg  : adjusted geometric average (symmetric)
           #  lavg  : adjusted log average (symmetric)
 global    # whether to apply trimming paramters (kbest,cutoff) globally or slice-locally (default=0)
 onepass   # whether to use old, fast, incorrect 1-pass frequency acquisition? (default=0; aliases: 1pass 1p)
 debug     # debug mode? (aliases: debug dbg; default=0)
 profile   # profile-type (aliases: profile prof prf pr p; default=2); known values:
           #  colloc        (aliases: cof c f12 2)
           #  unigrams      (aliases: ug u f1 1)
           #  tdf           (aliases: tdm)
           #  ddc           (aliases: DDC)
           #  diff-colloc   (aliases: diff-cof diff-c diff-f12 diff-2 d2)
           #  diff-unigrams (aliases: diff-ug diff-u diff-f1 diff-1 d1)
           #  diff-tdf      (aliases: diff-tdm dtdm dtdf)
           #  diff-ddc      (aliases: diff-DDC dDDC dddc)
 format    # output format (aliases: format fmt f; default=html); known values:
           #  txt           (aliases: text txt t tsv csv)
           #  json          (aliases: json js j)
           #  html          (aliases: html htm)
           #  storable      (aliases: storable sto bin)
           #  gmotion       (aliases: gmotion gm)
           #  hichart       (aliases: highcharts highchart hichart chart hi hc)
           #  bubble        (aliases: bubbles bubble bub b)
           #  cloud         (aliases: cloud cld cl c)

=item diacollo/profile.perl

Low-level script for DiaColloDB queries, returns DiaColloDB data.
Accepts the same parameters as L<C<diacollo/index.perl>|/diacollo/index.perl>.

=item lexdb/view.perl

Top-level user interface for LexDB viewing.  Accepts the following parameters:

 select       # SQLite SELECT clause (default=w,p,l,f)
 from         # SQLite FROM clause (default=lex)
 where        # SQLite WHERE clause (default="")
 groupby      # SQLite GROUP BY clause (default="")
 orderby      # SQLite ORDER BY clause (default="")
 offset       # SQLite LIMIT clause offset (default=0)
 limit        # SQLite LIMIT clause limit (default=10)

=item lexdb/export.perl

Low-level wrapper for LexDB data export.
Accepts the same parameters as L<C<lexdb/view.perl>|/lexdb/view.perl>, and also:

 fmt          # output format, one of (json text); default=text

=item lexdb/suggest.perl

Low-level wrapper for DDC query auto-completion via LexDB.
Accepts the following parameters:

 a            # attribute to query (aliases: a index attr; default: guess from query)
 q            # user query or term (aliases: q term)
 case         # use letter-case for suggestion search? (default: guess)
 offset       # offset of first result hit (default=0)
 limit        # number of suggestions to return (default=10)
 f            # result format (default="json"); known formats:
              #  gs    : google suggestion JSON (for jquery-ui)
              #  os    : OpenSearch suggestion JSON
              #  json  : flat JSON suggestion list
              #  text  : flat raw suggestion text
              #  csv   : TAB-separated list of frequencies and suggestions

=item semcloud/index.perl

Top-level entry point for distributional semantic index GUI (if available).

=item semcloud/pages.perl

 Alias: semcloud/docs.perl

GUI for k-nearest-neighbor pages.
Sets default target axis C<to=pages>;
all other parameters as for L<C<semq.perl>|/semcloud/semq.perl>.

=item semcloud/books.perl

 Alias: semcloud/cats.perl

GUI for k-nearest-neighbor books (files).
Sets default target axis to C<to=books>;
all other parameters as for L<C<semq.perl>|/semcloud/semq.perl>.

=item semcloud/terms.perl

 Alias: semcloud/terms.perl

GUI for k-nearest-neighbor terms (files).
Sets default target axis to C<to=terms>;
all other parameters as for L<C<semq.perl>|/semcloud/semq.perl>.

=item semcloud/semq.perl

 Alias: semcloud/semq.fcgi

Guts for k-nearest-neighbor distributional semantic index search.
Accepts the following parameters:

 q     # query string (required): CONTENT_LEMMA | page=REGEX | book=REGEX ...
 to    # target axis (terms | pages | books); default=books
 k     # number of nearest items to return; default=50
 b     # base for Maxwell-Boltzmann distance-to-probability conversion; default=2
 beta  # inverse temperature for Maxwell-Boltzmann distance-to-probability conversion; default=-1
 color # target color space (color | mono); default=color


=back

=cut

##======================================================================
=pod

=head3 Index data

The following index data files may (or may not) be published to this directory
by invoking L<C<make publish>|$doc/HOWTO.html#Remote-Publish> in a corpus build directory:

 dhist.db                 # fast static Berkeley-DB for "trivial" dhist-plot.perl queries
 dhist.db.ver             # dhist.db build version
 dhist-cache.json         # cache for dhist-plot.perl (1-year resolution)
 dhist-cache.json_m       # cache for dhist-plot.perl (1-month resolution, if supported)
 dhist-cache.json_y       # cache for dhist-plot.perl (1-day resolution, if supported)
 
 diacollo/data/           # DiaColloDB index data directory
 
 lexdb/lexdb.sqlite       # LexDB database
 lexdb/version.txt        # LexDB build version
 
 semcloud/dc-pages-map.d/ # DTA-style DocClassify model for semcloud

=cut

##======================================================================
=pod

=head3 Cache files

The following dynamic cache files are used, and should be (re-)generated at the latest
by a call to L<C<make init>|/SYNOPSIS> in the L<C<corpus/web>|$gitsrc/corpus/web/> checkout
directory:

 dhist-cache.json    # cache for dhist-plot.perl (1-year resolution)
 dhist-cache.json_m  # cache for dhist-plot.perl (1-month resolution, if supported)
 dhist-cache.json_y  # cache for dhist-plot.perl (1-day resolution, if supported)
 gpversion.txt       # output of `gnuplot --version` for dhist-plot.perl
 osd.xml             # generated OpenSearch description document

The C<dhist-cache.json*> cache files should typically be generated at index compilation time
and L<published|$doc/HOWTO.html#Remote-Publish> together with the  L<corpus index data|/index data>.
Earlier versions of the dstar web-wrappers updated these cache files on-demand in response to
user queries.  The on-demand cache generation behavior can be enabled by setting the make
variable C<L<WEB_CACHE_STATIC|$doc/README_config.html#WEB_CACHE_STATIC>=no>
(assuming appropriate values for
L<C<WEB_CACHE_GROUP>|$doc/README_config.html#WEB_CACHE_GROUP>
and L<C<WEB_CACHE_PERMS>|$doc/README_config.html#WEB_CACHE_PERMS>),
and
re-initializing the L<C<corpus/web>|$gitsrc/corpus/web/> checkout via L<C<make init>|/SYNOPSIS>.

=cut

##======================================================================
=pod

=head3 Corpus Statistics

A number corpus statistics files may be available in the L<C<stats/>|/stats/> subdirectory.
Exactly which files are available for a given corpus is determined by the compile-time
C<STATS*> variables, e.g.
L<C<STATS_ENABLED>|$doc/README_config.html#STATS_ENABLED>,
L<C<STATS_VARIANT>|$doc/README_config.html#STATS_VARIANT>,
L<C<STATS_QUERIES>|$doc/README_config.html#STATS_QUERIES>,
L<C<STATS_LEXDB_QUERIES>|$doc/README_config.html#STATS_LEXDB_QUERIES>,
L<C<STATS_EXTRA>|$doc/README_config.html#STATS_EXTRA>,
etc.
Unless explicitly noted as "optional", all statistics files listed in this section
should be available for all dstar corpora.

Additionally, compatibility symlinks (or sometimes copies) of some
DDC-query statistics files may be included, depnding on the
value of L<C<STATS_SYMLINKS>|$doc/README_config.html#STATS_SYMLINKS>.
Compatibility symlinks typically have file basenames of the form
C<count___*.txt> derived from the underlying DDC query.  Use of
compatibility symlinks is I<deprecated> as of 2021-03-09.


=over 4

=item F<ddc.files.all.txt>

 DDC query: count(* #in file)
 Symlink  : count____in_file_.txt

=item F<ddc.files.by-decade.txt>

 DDC query: count(* #in file) #by[date/10]
 Symlink  : count____in_file___by_date_10_.txt

=item F<ddc.files.by-decade+genre.txt>

 DDC query: count(* #in file) #by[date/10,textClass~s/:.*//]
 Symlink  : count____in_file___by_date_10_textClass_s_______.txt

=item F<ddc.files.by-decade+genre+pos.txt>

 DDC query: count(* #in file) #by[date/10,textClass~s/:.*//,]
 Symlink  : count____in_file___by_date_10_textClass_s________.txt

=item F<ddc.files.by-decade+pos.txt>

 DDC query: count(* #in file) #by[date/10,]
 Symlink  : count____in_file___by_date_10__.txt

=item F<ddc.files.by-genre.txt>

 DDC query: count(* #in file) #by[textClass~s/:.*//]
 Symlink  : count____in_file___by_textClass_s_______.txt

=item F<ddc.files.by-genre+pos.txt>

 DDC query: count(* #in file) #by[textClass~s/:.*//,]
 Symlink  : count____in_file___by_textClass_s________.txt

=item F<ddc.files.by-pos.txt>

 DDC query: count(* #in file) #by[]
 Symlink  : count____in_file___by__.txt

=item F<ddc.files.by-urldomain.txt>

 DDC query: count(* #in file) #by[url~s/^(?:https?:\/\/)(?:www\.)?([^\/]+).*/$1/]

B<OPTIONAL>, enabled by default if C<L<STATS_VARIANT|$doc/README_config.html#STATS_VARIANT> = web>.
This list can potentially grow quite large (I<O(N_docs)>), and may not be very useful in its
raw form.  It is nonetheless required for correct computation of
L</F<extra.urldomains.n.txt>>
and L</F<extra.urldomains.top-20.txt>>,
in particular when superordinate metacorpora are involved
(see L<mantis #52445|https://mantis.dwds.de/mantis/view.php?id=52445>).

=item F<ddc.sentences.all.txt>

 DDC query: count(* #in s)
 Symlink  : count____in_s_.txt

=item F<ddc.sentences.by-decade.txt>

 DDC query: count(* #in s) #by[date/10]
 Symlink  : count____in_s___by_date_10_.txt

=item F<ddc.sentences.by-decade+genre.txt>

 DDC query: count(* #in s) #by[date/10,textClass~s/:.*//]
 Symlink  : count____in_s___by_date_10_textClass_s_______.txt

=item F<ddc.sentences.by-decade+genre+pos.txt>

 DDC query: count(* #in s) #by[date/10,textClass~s/:.*//,]
 Symlink  : count____in_s___by_date_10_textClass_s________.txt

=item F<ddc.sentences.by-decade+pos.txt>

 DDC query: count(* #in s) #by[date/10,]
 Symlink  : count____in_s___by_date_10__.txt

=item F<ddc.sentences.by-genre.txt>

 DDC query: count(* #in s) #by[textClass~s/:.*//]
 Symlink  : count____in_s___by_textClass_s_______.txt

=item F<ddc.sentences.by-genre+pos.txt>

 DDC query: count(* #in s) #by[textClass~s/:.*//,]
 Symlink  : count____in_s___by_textClass_s________.txt

=item F<ddc.sentences.by-pos.txt>

 DDC query: count(* #in s) #by[]
 Symlink  : count____in_s___by__.txt

=item F<ddc.tokens.all.txt>

 DDC query: count(* #sep)
 Symlink  : count____sep_.txt

=item F<ddc.tokens.by-decade.txt>

 DDC query: count(* #sep) #by[date/10]
 Symlink  : count____sep___by_date_10_.txt

=item F<ddc.tokens.by-decade+genre.txt>

 DDC query: count(* #sep) #by[date/10,textClass~s/:.*//]
 Symlink  : count____sep___by_date_10_textClass_s_______.txt

=item F<ddc.tokens.by-decade+genre+pos.txt>

 DDC query: count(* #sep) #by[date/10,textClass~s/:.*//,]
 Symlink  : count____sep___by_date_10_textClass_s________.txt

=item F<ddc.tokens.by-decade+pos.txt>

 DDC query: count(* #sep) #by[date/10,]
 Symlink  : count____sep___by_date_10__.txt

=item F<ddc.tokens.by-genre.txt>

 DDC query: count(* #sep) #by[textClass~s/:.*//]
 Symlink  : count____sep___by_textClass_s_______.txt

=item F<ddc.tokens.by-genre+pos.txt>

 DDC query: count(* #sep) #by[textClass~s/:.*//,]
 Symlink  : count____sep___by_textClass_s________.txt

=item F<ddc.tokens.by-pos.txt>

 DDC query: count(* #sep) #by[]
 Symlink  : count____sep___by__.txt

=item F<extra.urldomains.n.txt>

 Shell command: wc -l < ddc.files.by-urldomain.txt

B<OPTIONAL>,
requires L</ddc.files.by-urldomain.txt>,
enabled by default if C<L<STATS_VARIANT|$doc/README_config.html#STATS_VARIANT> = web>.
See L<mantis #52445|https://mantis.dwds.de/mantis/view.php?id=52445>.

=item F<extra.urldomains.top-20.txt>

 Shell command: sort -nr -k1 ddc.files.by-urldomain.txt | head -n20

B<OPTIONAL>,
requires L</ddc.files.by-urldomain.txt>,
enabled by default if C<L<STATS_VARIANT|$doc/README_config.html#STATS_VARIANT> = web>.
See L<mantis #52445|https://mantis.dwds.de/mantis/view.php?id=52445>.

=item F<indexed.stamp>

 Shell command: /bin/ls -1 ../ddc_index/*/*._con | xargs -n1 date +'%FT%TZ' -ur | sort | tail -n1

File modification time (C<mtime>) of youngest physical subcorpus contributing to L<C<stats/>|/stats/>
DDC queries. Should be identical to the C<indexed> attribute returned by a DDC
L<C<info> request|https://kaskade.dwds.de/~moocow/software/ddc/ddc_proto.html#info> to the appropriate
C<ddc_daemon> process, as also reported by L<C<details.perl#basic>|/details.perl>.

=item F<lexdb.wordlike.txt>

 LexDB SQL query: SELECT sum(f) FROM w WHERE w REGEXP '^[[:alnum:]]+(?:-[[:alnum:]]+)*$'

Should approximate the total number of "word-like" tokens in the corpus.
Only present if a L<C<lexdb>|/lexdb/> database was compiled.

=back

=cut

##======================================================================
=pod

=head3 Templates

The C<*.ttk> files in the corpus/web directory are L<Template Toolkit|http://www.template-toolkit.org/> template files
instantiated by the L<C<dstar.perl>|/dstar.perl> script.

=cut

##======================================================================
=pod

=head3 Other files

In addition to the the aforemention files and directories, the corpus/web
directory contains the following files:

 dstar.css	# local css stylesheet
 dstar.js	# local javascript hacks
 jquery*.js	# local copy of jQuery API; see http://jquery.com/
 jquery-ui*	# local copy of jQuery-UI API; see http://jqueryui.com/
 purl.js	# local copy or purl URL-parser; see https://github.com/allmarkedup/purl
 Makefile	# (DEVEL) Makefile for initialization and installation rules
 README.*	# (DEVEL) this REAMDE file in various formats

=cut

##======================================================================
=pod

=head2 Aliases and Rewrites

If the apache C<mod_rewrite> module is availble, the following rewrite rules
should be enanbled in L<C<site.rc>|/site.rc> for each URL directory alias "C<.>" in the D* make variable
L<C<WEB_SITE_ALIAS>|$doc/README_config.html#WEB_SITE_ALIAS> (ususally C</dstar/L<I<CORPUS>|$doc/README_config.html#CORPUS>/>):

=over 4

=item C<./query> =E<gt> L</ddc-cgi.perl>

=item C<./search> =E<gt> L</dstar.perl>

=item C<./lizard> =E<gt> L</lizard.perl>

=item C<./hist> =E<gt> L</hist.perl>

=item C<./tcf> =E<gt> L</tcf.perl>

=item C<./status> =E<gt> L</ddc-cgi.perl>C<?mode=req&q=status>

=item C<./vstatus> =E<gt> L</ddc-cgi.perl>C<?mode=req&q=vstatus>

=item C<./info> =E<gt> L</ddc-cgi.perl>C<?mode=req&q=info>

=item C<./details> =E<gt> L</details.perl>

=item C<./config> =E<gt> L</config.perl>

=item C<./config-(all|auth|env|site|stash)> =E<gt> L</config.perl>C<?fmt=$1>

=item C<./diacollo/profile> =E<gt> L</diacollo/profile.perl>

=item C<./lexdb/view> =E<gt> L</lexdb/view.perl>

=item C<./lexdb/export> =E<gt> L</lexdb/export.perl>

=item C<./lexdb/suggest> =E<gt> L</lexdb/suggest.perl>

=item C<./semcloud/(cats|books|docs|pages|terms)> =E<gt> L<semcloudE<sol>$1.perl|/semcloud/books.perl> (~ L<C<semcloud/semq.perl?to=$1>|/semcloud/semq.perl>)

=item C<./semcloud/(query|semq)> =E<gt> L</semcloud/semq.perl>

=item C<./doc> =E<gt> C<//odo.dwds.de/~moocow/software/ddc/>

=item C<./privacy> =E<gt> C<../privacy>

=item C<./imprint> =E<gt> C<../imprint>

=back

=cut

##======================================================================
=pod

=head1 SEE ALSO

See also the top-level L<ddc-dstar README|$doc/README.html> file in SVN under
C<svn+ssh://svn.dwds.de/home/svn/dev/ddc-dstar/trunk/doc/README.txt>
and the references mentioned there.

=cut

##======================================================================
=pod

=head1 AUTHOR

Bryan Jurish E<lt>jurish@bbaw.deE<gt> created these web wrappers by
adapting the relevant portions of the OpenSearch wrapper API
used for the Deutsches Textarchiv (dta).

=cut

